---
layout: post
title: Academic Papers Need 5 Abstracts
date: 2018-01-22 13:28:19
categories: academia
---

Recently, I've been learning in two ways, under two different sets of 
circumstances. At work, I've been learning about modern climate change 
models, and in particular, the statistical methods that go into 
generating curring-edge climate predictions, policy, and data analysis. 
This has been really interesting! It's also somewhat stressful, given 
the nature of how my livelihood is tied to understanding those papers. 

The other way that I've been learning is by taking up (**sigh, big 
sigh**) guitar in my spare time. I've been playing the drums for a while 
and learned just a touch of music theory when I was younger, so I'm not 
quite starting out at square one. Much like complicated statistical 
models, there's a ton of theory and skill that goes into understanding 
how talented guitarists play. This has been really interesting! But 
generally, my comprehension of music theory and those damned instruments 
that have pitch (read: all of them, other than **some** percussion) is 
at a much lower level than my comprehension of climate models. 

So there's been a lot of learning. Over the holidays, I fell into a trap 
most everyone falls into these days... The YouTube hole. And from that 
YouTube hole I discovered this: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRkgK4jfi6M. I didn't know who Jacob 
Collier was before watching this video. I did know who Herbie Hancock 
was. But this video! This video series! I love it, and here's why:

In the video, harmony is explained 5 times. The first time, it takes 
about 10 seconds. The second, about 30. The third? A couple minutes. And 
we go on in that manner until jazz legend Herbie Hancock and 
best-of-the-musical-petri-dish-prodigal-son Jacob Collier spend a while 
doing a little talking, some playing, and a lot of 
talking-through-playing as they explain what harmony is by showing, not 
telling. It's brilliant. 

As I wade through academic papers, I wish I had these 5 explanations. 
When you read a paper, you generally get two, maybe two and a half of 
these explanations. Working backwards through those 5 explanations, an 
academic paper definitely has an explanation for other experts (the 5th 
explanation). There's an introduction, which may or may not count as a 
complete distillation of the ideas in the paper. We'll call this a half. 
Then there's an abstract or executive summary, where the main ideas of 
the paper are conveyed in a couple hundred words. Depending on how you 
feel about introductions, this is either the 3rd or 4th explanation. 

Often, reseachers or students have to read tens or hundreds of papers in 
a short period of time. Why not give the 1st and 2nd explanation too? 
This would have benefits for both authors and readers. Richard Feynmann, 
famed physicist and science explainer, is known for claiming that if 
somebody can't distill something to at least a college freshman level of 
understanding, they don't really understand what's happening. He took 
pride in making very complicated topics very easy to understand, most 
notably in his Feynmann Diagrams, a series of lines that explain quantum 
mechanics (truly).

It wouldn't take much time to write, and would save readers countless 
hours. Give us the 1st and 2nd explanations! Why not? 
